Before I go about changing my name and
making it smaller and
all that kinda stuff,
let's put in our graphics.
Because if we take a look at our navbar
again, instead of the words LinkedIn and
instead of the words GitHub, what I
actually want here are the icons for
those.
And I wanna add a cool
comment icon next to my name.
You, of course, can choose whatever
kinda icon you want, all right?
And so the way we're going to do that is
we are going to go to fontawesome.com.
And even if you are not a fan of Font
Awesome in terms of using it from a font
perspective, this will give you all of the
icons as SVGs and they are free to use.
And so that is the way we
are going to use these today.
What is an SVG?
What does that stand for, SVG?
>> Scalable vector graphics.
>> Scalable vector graphics,
what the heck does that mean?
Graphic, we're pretty clear on, yeah?
What does the vector mean?
>> You can zoom as much or as little
as you want and it still looks crisp.
>> It looks crisp and beautiful,
right, because it's drawn with math,
not with pixels, right?
So like a picture, you can zoom in and
it looks fuzzy eventually
cuz it's drawn with pixels.
But vector graphic is drawn with math,
and so you can zoom in indefinitely.
It's like a font in that way.
So we have math equations describing
curves and things behind a vector.
And what does scalable mean?
Scale it, yeah?
Okay, so that's a scalable vector graphic.
So here in Font Awesome,
we wanna use the free version of this.
So if you go up at the top here to Icons,
and
then you can search these icons.
I'm gonna type in LinkedIn
into my search box here.
And then if you choose Free,
it will filter those for
you and
show you the free versions of LinkedIn.
And I don't know why StayLinked
is in there, but anyway,
you have a choice between what
kind of icon you wanna use.
I'm gonna use the first one,
the one in the box, okay?
And if we click on that,
it's gonna show you how you could go
about including this in your document,
you have to hook up the font to
the webpage, et cetera, et cetera.
What we're gonna do is
we're gonna go to SVG here.
And this is gonna give us the SVG code for
the LinkedIn icon.
And if you click this, right, it will say
that it has copied it to your clipboard.
And now we can go back to our pen and
go back in our navbar on
the HTML side of things,
and where you have the word Linkedin here,
okay, you can paste your SVG code.
And it'll look really,
really wacky, and that's okay.
Format your HTML afterwards, too.
Okay, so did it work?
Well, what we have going on here
right now is there is an icon here.
It's clickable, but SVG, by default,
has a dimension of zero by zero.
[LAUGH] So it's there, but
you can't see it because it has
scaled its little vector cell font down so
small that you can't see it.
So don't panic.
Let's just leave it there for the moment.
And now what we're going to
do is grab the GitHub icon.
So we're gonna do the same thing.
I'm gonna do a search here for GitHub.
And the free version.
And there are choices
here to be made as well.
I think the one I had was the square
one to match my LinkedIn one,
which was also square, but
you can pick whichever one you want.
And then we'll go to SVG and
we're gonna copy that one as well.
And then we're going to
go back to our CodePen.
We're going to find the word GitHub here.
And that's where you
can paste in your SVG.
And you do not have to worry about
what that says at all, okay?
That says make a GitHub icon.
We don't particularly care what that says.
And then finally, the last one
is an icon to go by your name.
And I think the one that I use, I think
I typed in comment and got the meteor.
Yeah, I got the meteor here.
If you wanna use a different icon,
there are 2,000 free ones to choose from.
Feel free to look through them.
Take as much time as you want.
It will be a while.
[LAUGH] It's one of those things
that you can spend a lot of time on.
But I'm just gonna use the meteor here.
And once again,
I'm gonna go to the SVG tab.
I'm going to copy that.
And then I'm going to
go back to my webpage.
And next to my name,
I don't actually want to replace my name.
I want it to go next to my name.
So I am going to paste in my SVG.
And then it will say Jen Kramer and
it will look like this.
And that one turned black.
What happened here?
Why is this one black?
>> The header color?
>> The header color, maybe.
How about the h1 color?
You're very close.
The h1 we know is black, okay?
The other ones later,
we don't really have a color set.
So they're actually kind of
displaying really, really small.
So here, this is the meteor taking
on those dimensions of the h1.
[LAUGH] So it's really super big.
It scales up to a ridiculous size.
That's what's going on here.
Cool, all right, and then the last
thing I wanna do here before we go and
style everything, let's scroll
to that last link in our navbar.
And this is the resume link.
I want to add to this a class of button,
class="button".
And because we coded that earlier,
you should wind up with a beautiful green
button right there on your page when you
add class of button to the a tag there.
So right here, class of button.
Did it work?
Fantastic, let me ask you
an accessibility problem here,
which is that we have these SVGs now that
are taking the place particularly for
LinkedIn and for GitHub, and we don't
have that text that's there anymore.
So if I was a screen reader, how would
I know that those are LinkedIn and
GitHub elements or tags that are gonna
take me somewhere, to LinkedIn or GitHub?
How would I know?
Anybody?
The answer is you have no way of knowing
what you're going to go to right now.
So if a screen reader was reading this,
it would read off projects, about,
contact, link, link.
It wouldn't know what those were.
So let's give the screen reader
something to indicate what this is.
So back here at the top again where
we go to our h1, a href="index.html".
We're going to add an attribute here that
some of you may be familiar with, aria.
Aria always has to do with accessibility.
It's usually followed by a hyphen and
something else.
In this case,
it's going to be aria-label=, and
I'm going to say click for home so that
people know when they click this link,
it's gonna take them to the homepage,
okay?
That's one thing that we can do.
And then for the SVG itself, and
this is that meteor SVG, what we can do
is add to this aria-hidden="true".
So what this does is the screen
reader will read the link and
know that this is a link that's gonna
take you to the homepage, awesome, and
it will skip right over the SVG.
Because the SVG is really for
people who can see it and go,
wow, cool, it's a comment.
Didn't really have any other purpose
on my page other than it's fun to look
at, right?
Yes.
>> So we don't use the alt attribute
because it's not an image technically.
>> Correct, exactly, and
we're going to be hiding them anyway.
They are eye candy.
Okay, so then we're gonna do
the same thing here with LinkedIn.
So when I get to my link here for
LinkedIn,
I'm going to add to this
aria-label="LinkedIn".
And then for the SVG associated with
it inside of that first SVG tag,
we say aria-hidden="true", okay?
Alt text, of course, is great when you
have an image that is adding something to
this webpage and that it's
communicating some kind of meaning.
In this particular case,
these images are really eye candy and
by using the aria, what was it?
The aria-label property here,
this is giving us the text
that the screen readers need in order for
this to work.
And this is what the accessibility people
are recommending, to make SVGs accessible.
So I bow to their knowledge
on this particular point.
So then, of course,
we're gonna do this one more time.
We're gonna do this for GitHub.
Aria-label="Github".
And in the SVG itself,
aria-hidden="true".